# AI agents leverage imaging technology to detect ecosystem indicators relevant to marine fisheries

## PIs: Adam Greer (Marine Science), Jin Sun (Computer Science, Institute for AI), 


Wild-caught marine fisheries represent a multi-billion dollar industry and are the main source of protein for billions of people around the world. However, the abundance of different commercially important fishes is still difficult to predict due to the numerous environmental factors affecting the survival of early life stages of fishes (i.e., eggs and larvae). Because of this, fisheries science is moving towards ecosystem-based approaches to fisheries management, whereby indicators in the ocean can be used to infer health of different fish populations. Accurate predictions of ecosystem health relevant to fisheries would therefore be a major breakthrough in food security and scientific understanding of the mechanisms influencing fish populations.

Identifying relevant marine ecosystem indicators is somewhat limited by the conventional methods of sampling the ocean. These methods involve using nets, which systematically under-sample gelatinous zooplankton or jellyfish that are predators of fish eggs and larvae. They can also interact with fishes in complex ways that are difficult to quantify (Greer et al. 2021). Tehe patchiness or degree of aggregation of prey is also necessary for larval fishes to feed. Thus, it is critical to design sampling systems that can detect larval fishes while also quantifying their most relevant predators and prey on the scales that larval fishes experience (meters to 10s of meters). Measuring and interpreting these data may be key to predicting larval fish survival, and fish population variability, in complex marine ecosystems.

The use of in situ camera systems has revolutionized marine scientists’ abilities to measure larval fishes, predators, and prey on relevant spatial scales. The software required for accurate and fast analysis, however, has not been adequate to answer basic questions about these ecosystem indicators. Here we propose to use a human-annotated ocean imaging dataset to train an AI agent to identify larval fishes and describe the most relevant interactions with other objects (i.e., zooplankton taxa and marine snow). Through this training and testing process, we will create an AI agent that can be implemented on a moored imaging system to 1) quantify larval fishes and 2) identify the most relevant interactions with other zooplankton taxa or abundances of non-living (marine snow) objects. The agent will also identify objects that are unfamiliar to it thought the training process and therefore identify weaknesses for better training. 

We will collaborate with the engineering company Bellamare LLC to build this moored imaging device and test it in the Gulf of Mexico, which is an area known to have high abundances of larval fishes. We will also test the system at the edge of a coral reef, which is an area known to have high diversity of zooplankton and larval fishes. This should generate many out of context images and allow for train the agent to operate in different environments. If successful, these AI agents could be deployed with camera systems in marine environments all over the world and give users near-real-time information about the health and ecosystem status of their local environment. The agents could also help scientists make better decisions about where to sample and identify novel changes to the ecosystem that might be relevant for more detailed investigations.

## General objectives:
1)	Use the benchmark image dataset to train the AI Agent to identify different zooplankton and larval fishes and test its accuracy in a wide range of environments
2)	Build a moored imaging system with power supply and onboard computer (local host of the AI agent)
3)	Conduct a field trial where we deploy the AI agent on a moored system. Proceed to tow an imaging system around the moored system to provide broader spatial context and assess performance to both identify larval fishes and most relevant interactions.
4)	Share AI agent as open source software for all marine scientists to use and develop new indicators of ecosystem health.
